hi there and welcome to the api testing
with postman course my name is valentine
i'm a software developer and i like to
share my passion for apis with others in
a way that is easy to understand
when i'm not speaking at a conference
or traveling the world
i like to share what i know by creating
short tutorials and online courses like
this one
in this course you will understand what
bozeman is and why do we need this tool
start using postman to interact with
apis and write api tests
in the last part of the course we'll
explore ways to automate the entire
testing process you will get hands-on
experience using an api
throughout the course i will give you
assignments as a way to practice what
you have learned
if you are serious about api testing you
need to practice on your own
make sure you check the video
description for the course notes
i'll be putting there the most important
steps you need to take
links to resources
any updates just in case something has
changed
so let's get started
before we get our hands dirty let's make
sure we understand the basics
if you are new to apis here is a very
quick introduction
an api is essentially an interface to a
server that has some data or does some
actions
to understand the concept of an
interface think about any power outlet
you have in your home
it does not matter which device you want
to power your laptop a washing machine
or a tv
the outlet on a wall is designed to
accept any plug following a predefined
specification
an interface is essentially a contract i
live here in europe so all sockets have
a specific form if i bring a device from
the united states or australia this will
not work as they have a different
interface
the apis we are dealing with share a
similar concept to use an api we need to
know and follow the specification
if you are totally new to apis i do
recommend watching another course here
at field code camp created by craig
dennis to get the basics of apis right
i think the best way to understand apis
is by actually using them let's get back
to postman postman is a tool for
interacting with web-based apis that is
apis that work over the internet an api
is like an outlet that a server offers
and instead of electricity we get data
we use postman to plug into this outlet
but instead of using a physical cable we
use the internet
postman can help us connect to that api
and make sure that the process of
sending and receiving data is much
easier
without that interface to the server it
will be much harder to communicate so
this is why we need postman
in this lesson we'll learn how to
install postman postman uses a freemium
pricing model and for many use cases
including this course it is free to use
there are two ways of running postman in
your browser by going to postman.com
or as a standalone app that you have to
download and install
there is also an old and deprecated
google chrome extension don't use that
one
i'll be using the browser
application throughout this tutorial but
apps functionality is very similar you
will find installation instructions in
the course notes i'll go to postman.com
and sign up for an account
the setup after this is relatively easy
and i will not create a team yet
this is it
postman is
actively developed by the time i
finished recording editing and
publishing this course
a new version will be released
you may notice slight differences from
what you see right now in this video
however i can reassure you that the
principles stay the same
i will update the course notes if
there's something really important you
need to know
the first thing that i like to do when
opening postman for the first time
is changing to the black theme
so in order to do that simply locate
this gear icon this will take us to the
settings
and from the tab with themes
i'll select the black theme
and simply close this
so let's go ahead and start using an api
in postman
for this course we'll be using an api
that allows us to order a book
now every time we want to start using an
api
we need to understand how to interact
with that api and the best way to start
is always by looking at the api
documentation now any api out there that
you want to use should have an api
documentation that explains you how to
use that api explains what's available
and so on
the api that we'll be using
allows us to have a look at a list of
books and to order a book
so
right from the api documentation that
you see here and that will be linked in
the course notes you'll be able to see
that api is available at this specific
address
and additionally there are some
endpoints that we can use endpoints
offer different kind of responses and
we're going to take a look at them the
first endpoint that we should look into
is the status endpoint
so what i'm going to do is simply copy
the address of the api
and here inside postman
from the workspaces
i'll select my workspace
workspaces in postman allow you to
organize your work better
let me make this a bit bigger
so i'm gonna go ahead and open up a new
tab
and this looks pretty much similar to
what you have in a browser
it's just a bit more advanced
i'm going to paste here the address
and after it i'm going to write status
all requests that will go to this api
must include this address here
i'm gonna hit here the send button
and what i'm gonna get back is in the
lower part of the screen
i'm gonna say status okay
so this is our first request in postman
we have sent a request to this api to
this status endpoint and essentially the
status endpoint is just telling us that
the api is available is working as
expected
and that we can start using it
next let's take a closer look at what
has happened here
you can load this here in the address
that we are using
this
https protocol
https stands for hypertext transfer
protocol http and s means secure so it's
a secure connection most apis should be
using https
but for the purpose of what i'm gonna
demonstrate next
http and https are essentially the same
thing
now just to do a bit of http recap
in our communication between the client
and the server now in this case the
client is postman and the server or the
api
is the simple books api
we are using http messages
the http message that goes from postman
to the api
is called a request and what is coming
back from the api is the response
the request in postman is represented
here on the upper part
and essentially postman allows you to
configure many things about the request
the request will contain the url or the
address where you're sending this
request in this case
we have
this is the address of the api and this
is the endpoint but we are specifying
everything in one address
we also have the request method and
we'll get into that a bit later
we can specify headers
and postman has been kind enough and
already added a few headers for us
and we're going to take a look at those
headers a bit later
and we also can specify a body
which for a get request
we don't need to do that we'll
never do it for a get request because
with a get request
we're just trying to get data we're not
sending any data for example with the
post request we will specify a body
now this is essentially
what is happening with a request so
again just to
quickly recap postman allows us to
configure the different properties of
the http request
on the lower part of the screen here
this is the response
and the response also contains some
properties you will find the status code
in this case 200.
the response will also contain some
headers
and generally both for the request and
the response
the headers are like some meta
information some additional information
that goes with the message
it's not always necessary to have this
but it just makes the communication a
bit easier
just to give you an example here what's
coming back here is a header called
content type and it's telling
essentially postman that hey what we
have received here is represented as
json you'll see here application slash
json
and using this information postman can
look at the response body and say oh i
know this is jason so i'm going to
display it as json instead of using for
example text you can see it doesn't look
so nice
so these are like some additional things
that travel both with the request and
the response
the response will also contain what is
probably the most interesting and most
important part the response body
essentially the response body
contains the entire response whatever we
wanted to get as an information from the
server will be available in the response
body
i'm going to point out the different
parts of the http
request message and http response
message
throughout the course but i just wanted
to do a short recap of what's available
and where you can find this information
inside postman
now let's say that we want to keep this
request we already have configured here
the api address and let's say you want
to reuse it at a later point
so what we can do here is click on the
save button inside postman
and we can also give this request a name
for example we can call it api status
and we cannot simply save this request
as it is we'll see here that this save
button is disabled we have to create a
collection collection is essentially
a list of multiple requests
typically they are all connected to the
same api so if you're working with
multiple apis probably will have a
collection for each individual api
or sometimes even for the same api
depending on the use cases so i'm going
to go ahead here click on create
collection
and i'm going to call it simple book api
click here on this check mark
and now this request will be saved in
this collection
if i go ahead and close the tab
will be able to find here
in this part here of collections we'll
see here the collection itself
and if i click on one of the requests
inside the collection the tab will
automatically open up
and i can run that request again
typically in postman
we try to avoid having addresses or
configuration in our requests just in
case something changes
so i'm going to go ahead
select this address here
you will see here that postman offers
this set as a variable so essentially we
can replace this with a variable that we
can configure in a single place so let
me show you what i mean by that i'm
going to click here on set as variable
i'm going to select here set as a new
variable
i'm going to call it base url
because this is the url where all our
requests will go
and we'll just use different endpoints
the value that will be saved is
available here
and should not include the final slash
we also have to select the scope now
there are different scopes available in
postman where we can save this variable
i'm going to get into those a bit later
for this example we're going to select
the collection scope so essentially this
variable will be saved in the collection
and that's about it i can go ahead and
save this request again
and
you will see here if i hover over this
variable that has this very special
syntax here with double curly braces in
the beginning and two double curly
braces at the end
you'll also see the value that this has
if you want to change this variable all
we have to do is to hover over the
collection name here these three dots
will show up
and select here edit
and from the variables tab
you'll be able to see here the base url
variable
just in case this set variable option
doesn't appear when you select the
address
don't worry about it you can simply go
ahead and manually add the variable here
for any variables in postman you will
notice the initial value
and the current value
the initial value is something that will
be shared with other people
for example if you share this collection
with someone else someone in your
organization a friend of yours or anyone
they will be able to see the initial
value and this is fine for this api
because this is a public api
the address is known so there's no
secret there later on we'll be using
some secrets and we may not want to
share them with others
and we're gonna keep them in the current
value so you can keep in mind like the
current value is what is being used in
postman and this is private to you
the initial value is something that is
not being used when you're sending a
request
and will be shared with others
so if you go ahead and run this request
again we'll see that there's absolutely
no difference so postman will replace
this variable with the address
and we'll send this request just as
before it is just much nicer for us to
have it all in one place
all right let's go back to using this
api
so far the status endpoint hasn't been
very exciting so let's take a look at
the next endpoint and this is the slash
books endpoint this will give us a list
of books
so in postman what we can do is to
select the address that we already have
here open up a new tab
paste the address here
because this request is not in a
collection you will see here that a base
url doesn't get resolved it would say
here unresolved variable because the
variable is only in the collection and
this current request that we have here
this tab is not saved in that collection
so we're going to go ahead and click
here on save
the simple books api is already selected
just in case you don't see it here or
you have multiple collections to select
from
simply select the respective collection
where you want to save the request
and i'm going to call this
list of books
and we're gonna also change this
to books
so if you're looking here at the api
you'll see that we need to submit a get
request to the slash books endpoint
so we have here get git is always by
default
we have here the base url slash books
so let's go ahead and click that send
button and see what happens
again on the lower part of the screen
we'll see the response
what's important to notice here is that
we get the status 200
as that is 200 always indicates that a
request was understood and that
essentially everything was okay so when
you see 200 okay this means that
everything is fine and you will see here
that we have a list of different books
what you see here this way of formatting
data this is called json
and it is very easy to get this
information that is essentially just a
text
and to parse it and use it in
essentially any programming language out
there so it makes this data very
portable from one system to the other
going back to the api documentation
we'll also notice that there are some
optional query parameters and this is
what we wanted to take a look in this
lecture
so what are query parameters well query
parameters are
some additional data that we can submit
with our request
for some apis they are mandatory and for
some apis they are optional
in this case these query parameters are
optional so let me give you an example
we can add here in postman under query
parameters you'll see here we have
parents
selected and right below that we have
query params
so we can write something like type
and let's say we are searching for a
chromebook
so i'm going to write here the value
crime
you can notice as i type here the
address itself has changed as well
and you can notice in an address query
parameters
at a point where you see a question mark
and after that you will see
something like a key
value pair so the key is type then we
have the equal sign
and then we have a value
in this case i expect that this will
help us filter through all these books
and only get the books that are crime
books
now this time something
different appears here
you will see first of all that the
status has turned from a status to 100
into a status 400 bad request when you
see a status 400 it generally means that
you have done something wrong
so the api has understood your request
but whatever you have sent is not
correct and most of the time you will
see additional information in the
response body
it says here and it's very important
that you read these errors
sometimes they're a bit technical and
maybe confusing in the beginning but you
just have to
bear with these errors and try to
understand what's going on so here it
will say
invalid value for query parameter type
the query parameter type is what we're
trying to send here this type
and it says here must be one of fiction
or non-fiction so essentially the
response is telling us hey you have sent
here something that i didn't expect this
is not valid we only accept fiction and
non-fiction there is no crime type or
something like that
so if i select here fiction
and replace
crime with fiction you will see also the
address here has changed
then i will get back the list of only
fiction books
and you can even see here that
everywhere it says fiction fiction there
is no longer known fiction
now these query parameters
tend to be a bit confusing in the
beginning because
it seems quite arbitrary
like why should they be called type or
why does it work this way
and the thing is there is no rule which
query parameters are available can only
be known by reading the api
documentation
we can add parameters for example i can
invent the parameters like full and we
give here the value bar and notice here
how the address has changed
now we have this end sign between the
pairs so this is how you can send
multiple query parameters pairs with
your request
but essentially nothing has changed so
we can't send data to the api but it
doesn't mean that the api will look for
this data and will do anything to change
it so this is why
it's important to look into the api
documentation here is documented they
are optional so these are not required
there are two optional query parameters
one is type
and one is the limit
additionally with query parameters in
postman what you can do is to simply
click on this checkbox
and if you unclick it you'll see that
query parameter disappears from the
address
and if at one point you decide that you
don't need that query parameter anymore
you can simply hover over it and you
should notice here this x
you can click on it this will delete
that query parameter
okay time for an assignment
now you have to go and study the api
documentation
and use the limit
query parameter and add that to your
request
and i also encourage you to try out the
different values
i'm gonna give you a few moments to
pause the video and to try this on your
own
okay so let me show you how i would
solve this assignment
first of all it's always important to go
back to the documentation to understand
what's going on
it's also important that whenever you're
using a query parameter that you use it
exactly as it's being stated in the
documentation what i like typically to
do is to simply
copy the name so that i don't enter
anything that's wrong make any mistakes
in spelling that specific parameter
whatever that is
we'll see here that it must be a number
between 1 and 20. so let's try to
understand what this does
i'm going to simply paste it here so you
can see it has been added it doesn't
have any value yet
and let's say i'm gonna
write here limit two
and what i expect this to do is to only
give us two results back you will see
here now we have four books that are
coming back
and now
with limit two we only get two books
back that's great
now if i try something else like for
example 25
i'll get here a bad request now again
we have sent something to the api and
the api doesn't allow this so it says
here you cannot get more than 20 books
in one request for for example
performance reason
so we have to adapt this to something
that is being accepted by the api so we
can see back 2 has been
i was saying earlier that it's so easy
to write something different so for
example if i write limit with a capital
l
i will not get back only two results
there will be more results
so essentially we can say that
limit with a capital l and limit
written all in lowercase there are two
different query parameters and the api
is only recognizing one of them and
totally ignoring the other one it is
like writing here
foo
and with the value 2 makes no difference
let's continue exploring this api
we now have a list of books but as you
can see there's really a lot of
information about each book
and the reason for that is because this
view here where we see a list of books
is a simplified view
if you take a look at the documentation
here the next endpoint that we can use
is to get a single book
and this time the path will look a bit
different
so we're going to copy this path here
open up a new tab
paste it here
and of course you also have to use the
base url
so the first step is simply saving it in
the collection
to get
a single book this is how i'm going to
call this
and as soon as the request is inside a
collection
i can use the syntax with double curly
braces so double curly braces
and a variable that we're trying to use
is base
url
and this has been detected
you're probably wondering what is with
this book id here in the address
this is what we call a path parameter
or a path variable because as the name
variable implies it changes all the time
this endpoint allows us to specify a
value for this path variable
which represents one of the books that
we are trying to get additional
information on
we look back at a list of books you will
see here that each book has an id you'll
see here id 1 id 3 id 4 id 6 and so on
so let's go ahead and
edit here the path variable book id
and put in the variable 1.
and just a few seconds later
we now have only one book that we're
getting so this endpoint allows us to
get a single book but we now get more
detailed information we can see
the id and the name we already knew that
but we now see information about the
author
book code the price of the book how many
books are in stock and so on so this is
the purpose of this endpoint to give us
detailed information instead of having
here a list of books which contain
really a lot a lot of information
we can get a specific information
from this specific api we just need to
know the book id
if we enter here a book id that doesn't
exist for example
100 what you will get back is 404 not
found
you probably know 404 not found from
browsing the internet
when you end up at a page that doesn't
exist anymore the same principle applies
to apis in this case we're trying to get
the book with id
100 and the api is telling us hey there
is no book with id 100
this will always be
reflected also in the error itself
what is interesting about the path
variables is that they are different
from the query parameters that we have
used before
first of all you will notice here there
is no question mark
apart from this
this book id
key this is not something that will be
sent
so to make it even more explicit
this is what will be sent you will have
the base url slash books slash one
postman will replace that path parameter
with the value
we see it here in the editor just a bit
nicer it's easier for us to see that
and one here will be part of the path
just as books is part of the path but
books is always there books doesn't
change but here we can have id1 we can
have id2 we can have id4 and so on
this is why we prefer the syntax where
we specify here the book id
how we call this we can call it book id
we can simply call it id
it doesn't really matter because as i
mentioned the key itself compared to the
query parameters will not be sent
it's also possible to use both query
parameters and path parameters there's
nothing preventing you from adding a
query parameter called full with a value
bar
but this is something that the api needs
to accept
as in the query parameters if you're
just sending some random data the api
will totally ignore it
so let's remove this query parameter and
save the request
let's say we have identified the book
that we want to order
so what would be the next step
again we have to jump back to
documentation
and to understand how to submit an order
you can now see that the endpoint that
we need to use is orders
but this time also the http request
method we're no longer getting data with
post we are sending data
so we need to create a post request with
postman
i'm gonna copy this endpoint
and go through the same process once
again
if creating this request manually is too
time consuming you can also go here to
your collection to an existing request
click on the three dots and click on
duplicate
we'll create a copy of that request
where we already have this request being
saved so all we have to do is to enter
the new path and we can also change the
name so for example here we're gonna
name this request order book
as you remember we cannot longer use a
get request if we try get request
this will not work we have to select a
post request
now as you remember with the post
request
we have to supply a body so if we go
here to the body
you will see that we don't have a body
but we are anyway missing something for
this so i'm going to simply click on
send and see what happens
of this time we're going to get a 401
unauthorized
and it says here in the error missing
authorization header
when working with apis some endpoints as
for example status or this book's
endpoints
they were public and required no
authentication essentially anyone can
use them
other endpoints for example this one
where we're trying to
essentially create something create an
order
they can be private and require
authentication
this is totally up to the api provider
there is no hard rule telling you that
you know for this case you need
authentication for others you don't need
for some apis they are totally public
but especially if you're trying to
create data
most of the time you will have to deal
with some sort of an application
if you look here at the api it will also
say here that it requires authentication
so in order to figure out how to deal
with this we have to look into the part
of how to get this authentication
working
so if we scroll further down the page
we'll see this part with api
authentication
it says here to submit or view an order
you need to register your api client
api client is in our case postman client
server communication is what we're doing
we are the client we are sending http
messages to the server and the server is
responding
what essentially means is that we need
to register ourselves with the api
and it is a way for the api to identify
who's sending this request and who's
creating the data if there's any data
that has been created
there are many authentication methods
when it comes to apis and it is
impossible to go into all of them i just
gonna explain to you a very typical use
case that you may encounter essentially
with any public api that you're trying
to use
the purpose of this registration is to
obtain what is known as an access token
nexus token is like a temporary password
that you're getting
and you can use that password with all
your requests
and in this way you're authenticating
yourself don't worry if it doesn't make
sense right now we'll get to it in a
second
so this time we need to submit another
post request
and this post request has to go to this
endpoint api dash
clients and it also needs to include
the following json body
and here's an example
so again i'm gonna
simply go ahead and save this order book
i'm gonna duplicate it
let's call it register api client
and endpoint will be
slash api clients
you can add a final
forward slash or not for most apis it
will not make any difference
as you recall we have to select here the
post http request method because the
post will allow us to submit a request
body
i'm gonna click here on body and instead
of none which essentially means
doesn't send any data with a request
in order to submit a json request body
we have to select here raw
and from the drop down that you see here
we're going to select json
let's jump back to the api documentation
and luckily here we also get an example
in regards to how this request body
should look like so i'm going to simply
go ahead and copy this example here
and i'm going to paste it here
so essentially what we're sending here
is we're giving ourselves a name and
we're also specifying our email address
it's very important that when you're
submitting json to ensure that this json
is valid
for example
if i don't put these values between
double quotes
or if i forget one of these double
quotes here
something red will show up essentially
if you see something red when you're
trying to submit json it's not a good
sign and you should go ahead and fix it
this case everything looks well so i'm
gonna click on send
this time we get a different status code
and this one is 201 created
two one created is pretty similar with
200 which means okay
everything that starts with two
something is typically a good sign means
that everything was okay
everything which starts with four
indicates that there were something
wrong with the recurs that we have
submitted
and if there's anything like 500 it
typically indicates a server issue or
some other problem
so now we have submitted
our name
and our email
and we got back an access token this is
the password that we can use in the
upcoming request
so i'm going to simply double click on
it
copy it
go to our collection
click on edit
open here the variables
close this documentation here
i'm gonna write here access
token
now the initial value is something that
i don't want to provide just in case i'm
sharing this with anyone this is my
token i don't want to share with anyone
else so i'm not adding it to the initial
value
current value is what is being used by
postman inside this installation
i want to make sure that this access
token is saved because if i try to
submit this request once again with the
exact same data i'll get back the error
api client already registered
and you will see here that we get
another status code 409 conflict so
indicates that something went wrong
essentially this api client has already
been registered so make sure that you
use another email address it doesn't
have to be a real email address for this
api
now we have this token so we can close
this request
and let's go back to our post request
now as you remember here it says missing
authorization header
so we have to go back to this header
thing that we kind of avoided so far
when working with apis
you will not be provided with a form
where you can add your username and
password so we always need to somehow
send this information with
our request especially where
authentication is necessary
typically you will add this
authentication information to the
headers
some apis allow you to add them as query
parameters some of them allow you to add
them in the body but it's quite common
to add them to the headers
now there are already a few headers here
that postman has added for us and we can
take a quick look at them
essentially one of the most important
ones is user agent which essentially
identifies who's making the requests
it's also telling like which kind of
responses are accepted and so on and
here we have to add this authorization
header
now we don't want to get too technical
right now
and postman is known for making things a
bit easier for us
there is this authorization tab here
and if i click on it you will see here
that we have different types of let's
say authorization helper that we can use
now i know the list is a bit long and i
won't be able to get into each of them
but essentially what we have here is a
token so we're going to select the beer
token
and you'll see here a simple form where
you can simply add your token now we
don't want to add our token here we will
use our variable so again using the
syntax
access token we're going to select it
and you will see here it's available
so double curly brace in the beginning
then exactly the name of the variable as
you had it
and if this request is saved in the
collection and you hover over it
you should be able to see the value
all right perfect now
if we come back to the headers
you will see here that postman has
auto-generated
one header that is called authorization
exactly the header that we're missing
and it has a value in a very specific
way
this beer token authorization must
include the word beer then a space and
then essentially the token
so that's about it instead of manually
doing this and we can definitely do that
manually as well
we can use this authorization helper in
postman and postman will take care of it
it's absolutely the same thing just
wanted to show you like what's happening
from a technical point of view
all right
let's hit this send button once again
and see what's happening
now this time we're not getting a 401
we're still getting a 4 something we're
getting 400 band requests
and it's just telling us invalid or
missing book id so we're trying to
submit an order we haven't specified
anything but we'll fix that a bit later
all right so let's go back to submitting
this order we wanted to order a book
and we have to tell this api which book
we want so if we go here to body
and select for example raw
and
say something like we want book
with id1
and submit this request
i'm afraid the api will not understand
what we mean by this
so again we have to look at the api
documentation to try to understand
how to do this
how to submit this information how to
specify what we want
so in this case in order to submit an
order you'll see here an example and
again we have to submit a request body
in a json format and include these
properties and luckily again we have
here an example that we can simply go
ahead and copy
so i'm gonna totally replace this
with this json here
and i wanted to take a moment to talk
about json because i know a lot of
people just getting started with json
sometimes have issues
and the most common issue is generating
invalid json
postman as i mentioned before
tries to take care
and help you off if you make any
mistakes still it's kind of important to
understand what json is
now json is essentially just a key value
way of sending data
so for example here the key is book id
and the value is 1
and again we have a comma here
separating this
let's say
values that we're sending key value
pairs
and the next key value pair is the
customer name and it has the value john
if we try to write something different
instead of this column we are adding
here an equal sign this is not valid so
it has to match the syntax of what json
is essentially from a specification
point of view
we have these quotes here so if you
specify one of the keys without using
the quotes
this is again not valid json so we need
to specify these quotes they also have
to be double quotes they cannot be
single
quotes there's one exception to these
quotes and you probably already see it
here
one
is not between codes and you may be
wondering why is that
well
the truth is we're using quotes when
we're sending strings
the reality is that we are sending a lot
of strings for example john is a string
if we have an address that's a string as
well but
one here is a number we can also have a
boolean for example if we specify
something like true
or false that is also fine
so there are a few exceptions and if we
put for example one between
two double quotes
this would be valid json but this will
no longer be
technically speaking a number it will be
a string
all right so just keep in mind that you
need to submit valid information to the
api
if you're submitting an invalid json
well that api will not be able to
understand what you mean and let me give
an example i'm removing this comma here
you will see here postman is trying to
warn you you don't care about it
still go ahead and you're getting
something back like
this is not processable
i cannot work with this this is what the
api is telling you
so always pay attention make sure that
you understand what postman is trying to
tell you make sure that the json that
you're sending is valid
so welcome to the next assignment and in
this assignment you have to create this
post request which should be already
done by now
submit it and see what's happening
additionally i want you to see and
identify a book inside a collection of
books
that has a stock of zero so essentially
it's not in stock and try ordering that
book as well and see what's happening
i'm gonna give you a few seconds to
pause the video and to do the assignment
on your own and i highly encourage you
to practice this
all right so let me show you how i would
solve this assignment
essentially we should have a valid json
here so if we go ahead and hit the send
button
what we're getting back here is the
status tool one created so we have
successfully created this order
it even says here and response created
true and we're getting back an order
right here that's totally fine so it
means that we have submitted an order
now and this order will be processed of
course the order that we send here is
very simple doesn't include an address
phone number and so on so it's not 100
realistic
but the idea remains the same
now what's happening if we're trying to
submit an order for a book that is no
longer available
first of all how do we find this book
well we have to go back to the list of
books here
and you can see here with the filters
that we already have
all of them are available i'm going to
remove the full here
and you will be able to see here that
the book with id2
says here available false
so let's take a look inside that book to
see what's happening so i'm gonna go to
the get single book endpoint
and specify a book id
to
and you will see here that the current
stock is zero
so i'm wondering what's gonna happen if
we try to order this book
and
we're gonna get back a 404 not found i'm
going to say this book is not in stock
try again later so this is the
assignment
when we're trying to test apis and
especially when we need to send data
we have a tendency of reusing
essentially the same data over and over
again
and most of the time this will prevent
us from identifying issues with the api
especially if we've been asked to test
and ensure that that api will work
properly
this case there are not so many things
that can go wrong we already tested
what's happening with the book id that
is in stock and another one that's not
in stock you can also try and play out
with different values
but how about if we get some support
from postman in trying out different
values and for example here for the
customer name how about you know
generating a random customer name so
that we don't send all the requests with
john
unfortunately there is a functionality
hidden in postman that allows us to send
random data with our request
and that is a special kind of variable
it's called a random variable so i'm
gonna remove john here but make sure
that i keep the double quotes because if
we're trying to send a string without
double quotes you know it it's not gonna
be valid json
so i'm gonna open here two double curly
braces
enter the dollar sign
and as soon as i do this you will see
here a huge list of variables that are
available
now i'm not gonna go through all of them
i'm gonna write here random
and let's say we want a random full name
all right so let's click here on send
and again we're gonna get the error that
the book is not in stock so let's try a
different one
and now again a new request has been
sent
the problem now is we're sending
something but we have no idea what we
have sent
fortunately postman has another neat
functionality and that is the postman
console
it is a bit technical and a bit geeky
but it is important to use it as one of
the most important tools when you are
using postman you can find a postman
here right at the bottom of the screen
should say console
and it will open up inside postman
typically you should already have like a
long list of things here that we don't
need at this point
so what i'm going to do i'm going to
click here on clear
let's submit this request once again
and now this time we'll see here the
post request going out
with a full address at the orders
endpoint
i can expand it by clicking here
you will see here the request headers
these are not interesting
but also the request body so let's click
here on the request body this will open
up an additional window here inside the
console
and you will be able to see
the request body that we have sent
the postman console is particularly
useful for debugging when something goes
wrong when you don't understand what's
going on
always come back to the postman console
and take a look at the request see what
happened there you see here the book id
is one this is the customer name that we
have sent so this has been randomly
generated by postman
if you don't need it anymore
the first x here is for closing the
request body
and the other one is for closing the
console
that's it
i want to take a short break now from
postman
and so far in the course you have seen
many ways on how to use postman
but in this session i wanted to get a
bit into how not to use postman
so just to make clear you have seen that
we have used postman to interact with
apis
postmate is not a tool for dealing with
user interaction
think about if you have a website with a
form or buttons and you need a tool to
click through those
boozman is not a tool that deals with
such things it's just working with apis
postman is also not a tool for doing any
performance testing or any kind of tests
where you need to send a lot of requests
in a very short time
frame and also postman is not designed
for security testing
you can use it for security testing but
this is not the primary focus of the
tool there are many other tools out
there
which i think do a much better job at
helping you test to see if an api is
really secure
so i hope this short lesson has helped
you understand if postman is the right
tool for what you're trying to do
we have already submitted a few orders
so maybe now it's time to take a look at
how many orders we have
in order to take a look at that again we
have to look at the api documentation to
see if there's anything that can help us
in this regard
see here right below submit an order
there's also this get all orders
endpoint which is essentially the same
endpoint slash orders but this time we
only have a get request we're not trying
to create an order we're just getting an
order we're getting essentially all the
orders that we have
so let's go back in postman and we're
going to be lazy again and simply
duplicate this request
get
all book orders will be the name of our
request
because we have duplicated this we also
have the authorization header with us so
this request again requires
authorization
and instead of post we're going to
simply select get
and luckily if looking here inside each
order
we'll see a list of all the orders that
we have
each order has an order id which you can
see here it's no longer a number it's a
string
it says here which book we have ordered
who's the customer name also the
quantity and such information
and these other orders
have been created using this random full
name functionality that we have found
from postman
and this has ensured that we can now
have different names that we're sending
so essentially these are all the orders
that we have
in this assignment i'm asking you to
take one of these existing orders
and to view it individually so instead
of viewing all the orders
take
one order id
and find out if there's an endpoint that
allows you to view a single order id
give you a few seconds to pause the
video and after that i'll show you how
to solve this
all right
so let's jump back into the api
documentation and see what we can do
you will see here we have an endpoint
getting order
and the structure of this endpoint is
pretty similar to the one
where we were trying to get an
individual book
so
just gonna go ahead and copy this
go back in postman duplicate one of the
requests that we have
and i'm gonna replace here orders with
this endpoint make sure there are no
spaces or anything like this because
this will break and postman will send
this request to the wrong endpoint
gonna simply
rename this
to get an order
and addition we need to specify this
order id so if i'm just sending this as
it is right now
essentially postman will not send
anything so we will send the request to
the orders endpoint so you will see all
the orders just in case you're wondering
what happened there and if i type in
some value that doesn't exist
i will get back a 404 not found
so i need to get a real order so the
real order let's say would be this one
for john
i'm gonna paste here
the order id exactly as it was in the
other request and now we will see an
individual order that you're getting
here
so that's it
you know if i'm looking at this order
right now
i'm not really happy with the customer
name john it's not the full name so how
can we change this
now if we go back and use the post
request once again to order book will
essentially create two orders
so i was wondering if there's any way
how we can update this and luckily there
is
so here the api documentation will
notice this endpoint
which says update an order
and it will use the http request method
patch
to update this existing order and will
require
authentication
and it only allows us to update the
customer name depending on the api you
could update the entire order itself or
only some specific properties depends
from api to api
and again here we're gonna get an
example on how to do this
so
let's try to update this order i'm going
to simply copy here this customer name
and
essentially the structure is the same as
the one with getting an order so for
that reason i'm going to duplicate this
rename it so that i can easily identify
it
and for some reason the parameter here
got lost maybe i forgot to save it here
before creating it absolutely no worries
i can simply go ahead and
copy this from here
so we'll have the exact same request i'm
gonna try it again with get
i'm noticing that this is the order that
we're trying to update
so i'm gonna select here patch
and patch is again one of these http
methods that allows us to send a body
so i'm going to click here on body i'm
going to select raw
and again we're sending json
i'm going of paste it here
so let's add here another value
and we can even use this postman random
variable here
so let's say a random last name
this would be a good one
all right
so let's save it let's run it again
and we're not getting back anybody and
this is totally fine
because the status will be indicated
through the http response status and
this is 204 again 204 indicates that
everything was okay
so if we're trying to
get that order again
you will see here now the customer name
is john anderson
and we have managed to update the same
order so the order id remain the same
the book that we're ordering remained
the same
the only thing that changed is the
customer name
now let's assume that we already have
too many orders here and that we're
trying to you know delete some of them
with patch itself we can just update
information but we need a way now to
delete this order let's say we already
wanted to test something but we no
longer need it
so going back to the api documentation
you can notice that there's also an
endpoint for deleting an order
essentially the path for all these
operations from getting an order
updating an order or deleting an order
remained the same
the only thing that changed was the http
request method we had used get we had
used patch we had used post to create an
order
and now we are using delete
so delete doesn't require anybody
we just have to specify in this case
which one is the order id
again what we're using here is just an
example and it's always important that
you study the api documentation of the
api that you're trying to use
just because
a respective endpoint works in one way
with one of the http methods for this
api it doesn't mean that all apis work
exactly the same
so to update an order i'm going to
simply go ahead here
click here on duplicate
i'm gonna call it delete order
and i have to select the correct http
method this one is delete
the order id is already pre-filled here
so all i have to do click on send
i'm gonna get here 204 no content
but if we're still unsure if this worked
properly we can go back to get an order
so if we're trying to get the same order
that we have deleted
you notice it's no longer here
and especially if we try to look at all
the orders that we have
you will see now we have one order less
so obviously the delete order worked
properly
let's save this as well
and it will also show up correctly
here in the collection
you can notice that we already have
quite a few tabs open
so let's go ahead and close them
so what you can do is simply
close all tabs
and if there are any unsafe changes
you'll have the possibility of saving
those changes
if you have a lot of tabs and you don't
need them anymore because they only
contain temporary data
you can simply click here on the three
dots and select force close all tabs and
you will not be asked
welcome to the second part of the course
where we start laying the foundations
for automating the testing of this api
as you have seen so far
we started working with the api but
there's still a lot of manual work
involved
if someone changes the api we have to
retest everything manually and this is
not very fun and also time consuming
instead of verifying the api with our
own eyes we want to let postman do this
for us by writing api tests
we also want to avoid any manual
intervention like copy pasting data from
one request to the other
automation means that we let postman do
the work and we only step in if
something goes wrong
by the end of the course you will know
how to test this api with just one
command or only one click this is the
most exciting part of the course so
let's get started
alright so let's get started with
writing api tests
so far we have manually tested this api
and we went through all these requests
and essentially we created sort of like
workflow we
first of all checked if the api status
is correct and we got a list of books we
looked at a single book we ordered that
book
we took a look at all the orders we got
an individual order
we updated that order and then finally
we deleted it and of course for some of
these operations we also needed to
register ourselves with this api
the way we have looked at this
is take for example this api status well
essentially for postman as long as the
request has been sent and something is
coming back this has been a successful
request response interaction postman has
no idea unless we tell postman too
if this was successful or not
and we tell this by inspecting the
response we typically are looking at the
response we're not looking so much at
requests because we already know the
request
look at the response and we're looking
at for example the status code we think
here 200 and we're looking here at the
body and we're seeing status okay so
instead of us
manually looking at this information
let's tell postman to do this for us
and in order to do that we're gonna
switch here to this part of the request
where it says here tests
and this is where we can write tests
what you can write in this window here
is programming code it's javascript if
you want to be very specific about us
luckily
if you're not really into programming or
you're just getting started with it
don't worry i will try to make things as
easy as it gets
postman here has this window with this
so-called code snippets
they essentially allow you to quickly do
a few things with javascript without
writing a lot of code and especially for
us as beginners right now that's totally
fine
the most simple test that we can write
is to test that the status code is 200
so if we scroll here the snippets
you should be able to identify
one of the snippets which says here
status code code is
and if you click on it this code will be
generated
now if for some reason these snippets
have changed or you cannot find it
anymore don't worry you simply can go
ahead and type it as you see it here
now this is a piece of code that will be
executed when the response has arrived
and postman will check if the status is
and you can even see here
from the assertion that we're writing
here
it's kind of like easy to understand it
says here pm.response.2
have status 200. so it's relatively easy
to read
so
again you know what's happening here and
also postman knows what's happening here
so let's submit this
and now if we were paying attention here
in the test results
it will say one from one and if you
click on it
you will see here a path mapping green
says status is 200 whenever we are
writing tests we always must ensure that
it will also fail
just in case we made any mistakes when
typing this code here it's totally
possible
may break this test or may
always show that it's working when it
sometimes is not working
so let's try and fail this test we can
fail this test by entering here an
address that doesn't exist so for
example if i write here status foo
and simulate
that api will send me something else
back
i can get this test to fail and you will
see here
we expect the status code to be 200 but
we're getting this assertion error
expected response to have status 200 but
got 404 as you see here 404
i'm gonna fix it back but this was just
a small test to indicate that
what we have written here is working
properly
all right now if the status code is
let's say good but not enough for our
use case
we may also want to take a look at the
response body
for most apis the response body will be
written in json
this is just a very simple way to send
data from the api
to postman or to any let's say
programming language and to transform it
and use it there
essentially the data that is coming back
is relatively easy to use and understand
by other programming languages
so let's try and write a test
that will verify that the status
is indeed okay
now the first step that we need to do
is to parse the response
and
people generally wonder when they hear
about parsing
is like
why do we need to parse it
and the reason for that is what you see
here this is json but this is
essentially just text
it's not an object that we can use
inside javascript
so for that reason in javascript what
we'll do is we're going to define a
variable
so const response
will define a javascript variable
and we're going to initialize it
equal
and this is something that comes from
postman so i'm going to write
pm.response
this holds the response
and we are going to call a function
called json
and a function call in javascript is
always like this
so
inside this response variable in
javascript we will now have the response
which will be parsed from json into a
javascript object
if you want to take a look inside
and see what is the value of response
we can go back to our old friend the
postman console
by default the postman console will not
record the values of different variables
that are available unless instructed
we can use for example console.log
which is again a function
and we'll specify in this function
parameter
and that parameter is the response
so let's go ahead and open the console
again
i'm going to clear everything that you
see inside here
hit send one more time
and you will see here the request that
has been sent this is locked by default
and then you will see here from our
console.log statement
you will see here this javascript object
which has been created from parsing the
json response
the way this is represented looks pretty
similar to json but it is not json it is
a javascript object
all right now let's say we're trying to
get to this
okay here
and
we have here an object that has a
property called status
now in javascript there are two ways on
how we can get to that property
we can write response that status
and we can log that information and
you'll see here now it says okay
or the alternative
is to write this status between the
square brackets as a string
and this is sometimes needed
when dealing with names that contain
let's say a hypen or some other special
characters maybe a space or something
like that
that will break the syntax so this is
another way to use it but most commonly
i would see it in this way
both of them were got back with okay
now we have accomplished a very
important thing
and that is getting to the data that we
are trying to test
if we cannot read it if we don't have it
in our console after using it with
console log
there's no point in writing a test yet
so especially if you're a little bit
confused about json and javascript and
parsing and everything
make sure first that you see what you're
trying to test inside console.log
all right so now we already have it
there we know that it exists so let's
write another test
a test in postman always starts with
pm.test
and pm.test
is a function that takes two parameters
so you can see here pm.test this is a
function
the first parameter
will be the name of the test
so let's say here status
should be okay it's totally up to you
what to write inside here
and the second parameter
this is a bit more tricky we have to
specify the second parameter after a
comma
and this will be a so-called callback
function
and
this has a syntax like this one
or it can start like function this one
these two syntaxes are compatible with
one another
this one here is a bit more modern
now i'm gonna hit here enter
and this is where we can start writing
our assertions by default if we leave
this test empty it will not do anything
it doesn't really matter what we have
here for a name it will show it here as
past even though we have no assertions
now we're gonna start with something
very simple
and
what we're gonna do here is write
something like pm.expect
and we can expect for example one
dot
eql to equal
1.
you have to be very careful when you're
writing the syntax
and it has to look exactly like i have
it here
let's hit send again
if i'm seeing expected 1 to equal 2
we expect this to fail it will say here
assertion error expected 1 to deeply
equal 2. don't worry about this deeply
equal
essentially it's failing and it's
telling that one doesn't be equal to
all right
now how can we
make this assertion that status is okay
we already know that this object here
with this property
contains okay so let's check if it
contains okay
so instead of this expect hardcoded
value one
gonna paste it here
and here between double quotes
i'm gonna write okay
so let's send it again
we'll see that it passes
and if i write something else for
example not okay
it will fail and i will say expected
okay to deeply equal not okay
so this is an additional test that we
have written on top of checking that the
status is 200
if for some reason where again let's
call here the full status slash for
endpoint that doesn't exist
we expect some things to happen so first
of all
we'll get here 404 not found
but also here this entire code that we
have here will also fail because we're
no longer getting json
this is not possible so it will fail all
together
but this is just a very simple way on
how you can ensure that this simple
endpoint is working properly
it is now time for another assignment
based on what you have learned in the
previous lesson
i want you to write a status code test
for all the requests
inside the collection
and i also want you to make sure that
those tests will fail if needed
i'm going to give you a few seconds to
pause this video
and after that i will show you how i
will create this
all right
so there's nothing preventing us from
getting started with what we already
have i'm just going to change here be
the syntax make it a bit more modern
but as i mentioned before this is
absolutely equivalent and shouldn't make
any difference
i'm going to copy this and let's take it
here to the list of books
click here on tests kind of paste it
and again
the status that i'm getting is 200 i'm
seeing here the test results are working
if i'm trying something else
let's say books
it will fail with a 404 so this is
perfectly fine
getting a single book
again pasting absolutely the same test
and i will be absolutely sure that this
will fail as well
okay order book now this is interesting
let's see what happens if we simply
paste this test here
and you'll see here that the status that
we're getting is 201 created that the
test will fail
we can adapt this here
to check for the status 201
and also make sense to adapt the test
name this is of course not necessary
but it's just a good thing to keep it
consistent
all right so this one is now passing as
well
these other ones are absolutely the same
and i'm not going to waste a lot of time
making sure that they work
as they will always return here 200
right
this is another interesting one
trying to here to get an order
and that order doesn't exist anymore so
we're getting 404 not found and also our
test is failing so this is a good thing
that this has happened
we can look back here at the order book
result
we can get one of this order ids
put it here in the parameters
and running here the test
we'll see that the status is 200
so this has worked
we have to do the same for the next one
where we are patching it
so if i'm switching between too many
tabs here i'm now inside a patch request
pasting the test
i should have gotten a 204
and i'm expecting for 200 so i'm going
to change here 200 in 204
and now this one is passing as well
deleting an order is pretty similar i'm
gonna first let it fail
i'm getting here 404 not found
i should also get a 204
getting now the right
order id
and putting it
inside a parameter
okay another test that is passing
and also this with the registration of
the api client
i have to identify the right test
and i'm going to paste it here as well
if i recall correctly because we are
creating something
we expect here to get to a one
obviously
for saying the same data again this will
not work but now we have a simple test
that
tests that each individual requests in
this collection returns back the status
code and as you have already seen this
is already a pretty important test this
already gives us a pretty good idea if
that request was successful or not
as you have noticed in the previous
assignment
one thing is particularly annoying and
that is copy pasting this order id
from one request to the other
essentially we start here after we have
this order book we're getting an order
id
and after that we want to go through all
the other requests we have to paste it
over and over again
and to be honest we don't like that very
much
now i mentioned in the beginning
of the course that postman has different
variable scopes
and essentially those variable scopes
are collection variables that you have
seen so far there are also global
variables which is a
variable type that is available inside
the entire workspace for all collections
not just for a specific collection
or there are also environments
environments they are useful if you have
different environments so for example if
you're developing software and you have
a local development environment local
host
you have a testing development
environment
and you have a production development
then you can define multiple
environments and you can easily switch
within them and having here for example
the base url you can easily swap that
with testing environment or production
environment or localhost
getting a bit of topic right now in
terms of this
the problem that we're trying to solve
is to
use a postman variable to store this
order id
so what i'm going to do here is i'm
going to copy the value
and i'm going to click here on this
eye icon right here in the corner
and what we're going to do here is to
define a global variable
just as well we could have defined
this inside our collection as a
collection variable
but to be honest
this is sort of like a transactional
data we don't really want to save it
inside the collection we can just you
know throw it in these global variables
and not worry so much about it
so we're going to click here on this
edit
i'm going to define here the variable
key which is order
id of course you can call it as you wish
i don't really care about the initial
value
i just gonna paste here the current
the current value is now this one
now next time when we create this
request
we can take this order id
again if you lost it here you can simply
click here on this eye
you'll see here the values and you can
even click here on the current value and
easily change it
make sure you don't add any spaces or
new lines where you're pasting data
so now
at the next request the
get all book orders there's nothing that
we need to change but then when we have
here get an order
instead of manually specifying this
parameter here
i'm gonna use here double curly braces
order id
you'll notice that this is the order id
that we have just saved
so i will even copy this variable here
go to the next request replace this as
well
go to the delete order
replace this here as well
so
next time when we're clicking here on
orders
let's see it's gonna happen so we're
gonna get a new value
let's get here a new value
again click on the environment
replace it here
if i'm trying to get an order
i will see that order
and it should be exactly the same so we
can
cross check what we have here for a
variable to what we're getting back in
the response
i can update that order
i can go back and look at the updated
information
and of course i can go ahead and delete
that order
and if i'm trying to get it again
it will not be there anymore
and as you have noticed
the postman tests have been executed in
the background
and they already give us an idea if
everything went okay or not so we don't
even have to look at response body or
anything like that in this case we went
outside of what was expected in terms of
the flow
but the rest of the tests were useful
and now we have managed to
reduce a bit the amount of manual labor
that we have to do in order to test this
out
if we look back at the collection
we'll notice that we still have a few
requests that contain some let's say
hard-coded data
and it all starts with this list of
books where we have looked at some of
these books
we have identified a book id
and we have used that book id in some of
the upcoming requests for example
get a single book
we have here an id that is hard coded
and of course
then the next request with ordering the
book we have again the id here
so this kind of like hard coded data
makes our tests and our entire
collection
a bit susceptible to changes for example
if that book is being removed
and having like this hardcoded value
there will not do us any good
so for that reason we have to find a way
to make everything a bit more dynamic
so looking at this list of books
let's say for example we want to get the
first non-fiction book that we can find
here
so as you already remember essentially
we can add here a filter so we can add
here the
filter
type and say we're looking for a
non-fiction book
so we can change that here
and we're sending this again
we'll only get non-fiction books
so let's try again to set this to a
variable and see what happens
the question is like how can we get this
information
previously we have manually set this
variable but we still we want to avoid
getting this we want to
set this variable automatically and this
is totally possible so let's go here to
the scripting part where we have the
tests and we also have here the response
so
let's imagine that we want to get to
this id here id 2.
first of all we're going to define a new
variable called response
and we're going to do the parsing
opm.response.json will parse the
json into a javascript object
open up again the console
send the request
and we'll see here the data that we have
this data format
is different than what we had before
because it is a list of books or
how is it called in javascript it's an
array now recontains multiple objects so
this book i with id2 this is an object
then there is the next object with the
other book with id5
if we try inside the console log
to do something like response.id
you'll see here that it says undefined
and the reason for that
is because we first
have this array so we need
to get that data from the array first
and then we have an object where we can
call the property id
[Music]
the array that we have has keys
essentially
a way that allows us to access that
information for example if i write here
a square bracket
and i say zero
this will get us the first element from
the array
computer science we always count from
zero so this is why the first element
has the key zero
let me demonstrate this
you will see here we get this two
now
the problem here is that this first book
is not available
so
what we have to do is to get the second
book on the second book
we'll have the key one
trying to get that
and we'll get id number five here
that's all good
the problem is if this data set changes
or for example the first one will become
available or the second one will become
unavailable
having this hard-coded data here
will kind of like cause us some issues
for example
even if something changes in the
parameters we're no longer setting this
non-fiction
filter here
the id that we can get if we keep it
hard coding like this
will be different all the time
and we don't want this this will be too
risky
so we have to look into a different way
of handling this
because this is an array we can use
a specific function than this array has
so we can define here a new constant
let's call it for example
none non-fiction
books
and we can get a response
i'm going to use the method filter
and inside here we can define a
condition
now the condition that we're going to
define here is
inside another function
where we will receive a parameter
book
and then with this book we can define a
condition so for example book
dot available
and we can decide
here
if available should be true
from the two books that we have here we
can notice that the first one is not
available
but the second one will be available and
let's just assume all the time we'll
know that we'll get one of these books
so now what we can do
is from this non-fiction books
we can get the first element that we get
because we will know that this will be
available
filter
will throw out
any books
that are not available and will only
give us the books that are available
and then by specifying nonfiction books
we'll essentially get the first book
that is available and that is a
non-fiction book
and you will see it here being locked
in this way you have managed to get to
this property that is really hidden
inside the response
without actually having to write
something hard-coded with the only
assumption that all the time we should
find at least one non-fiction book that
is available
for most apis this is a assumption
that's quite valid the criteria that you
use here totally depends up to you you
can search for a specific name or by any
other characteristic
if you find yourself in a situation
where you need to filter a list of
different objects and extract only one
now so far this hasn't helped us a lot
so what we want to do next is to also
actually set that variable
luckily postman
has another code snippet that we can use
and the code snippet is called set a
global variable so i'm going to click on
it
will
be generated here
and all we have to do here is to specify
the following
we'll specify here the book
id this is the name of the variable you
can call it as you wish
and then we also have to specify the
value and when you're specifying the
value
you want to make sure that you're not
putting anything between codes because
this will be a string but since we have
here a javascript
object
we will be putting that
now of course we don't want to have the
object itself
we
want to get only a property of that
object so i'm going to write here that
id
so we're getting this object
and we know that the property id is 5.
after sending this you can click on this
i icon here
and you will see pretty similar to the
other variable that we have manually set
that now book id
has value 5. so it means that now
we can get an updated book id with
our requests and we don't have to do
anything else
now just in case
something does happen
and
no book is being found
it kind of makes sense to
test so just in case we don't have any
books there is a postman test that will
let us know hey we couldn't find any
non-fiction books
and in this case we're not gonna be
directly asserting the response but kind
of like indirectly through this filter
that we have
so let me show you what i mean by that
let's go ahead and write a new test
pm.test
and let's say here book
found
this is the name of the test
this will be the callback
function and inside let's try to write
an assertion
instead of logging this i'm going to
define a variable called book
and i'm going to write a few
expectations
so i'm going to use pm.expect
i'm going to expect book
to be
an
object
so first of all we expecting
that book is an object
and additionally we can write
other assertions for example bm.expect
book
that available
to be
true
and this is
absolutely the same as writing pm.expect
book available to equal
true it's just a different way of
writing it
so again this just ensures that
everything is as we expect it to be
what we're setting here instead of using
this we can use this book.id
and we can also try to make this fail
now it may fail in a different way we
can write here for example instead of
equals true
we can set a filter that will never
exist
and we're gonna get here
actually first of all a type error
because we're trying to get property id
of something that's undefined
essentially postman will anyway warn us
that something didn't went well
but this additional test that we can
write a just good
place to ensure that we document how the
api should behave and we document what
we expect to get back
so i'm going to fix this
and let everything run properly
so for example just to ensure
that everything works properly we can
also surround this by something like
let's say
if
book
only then we're setting this global
variable
so let's make this fail again
and then
we'll see here that we don't get this
error anymore from javascript
which says here book found
has failed so it hasn't found a book and
then we're making the expectation
undefined to be an object
so this is a way to get around that
javascript error that you have seen
previously
but apart from that
this is how
we ensure that what we have written here
in terms of javascript
is being properly handled just in case
something unexpected happens
and now it's time for another short
assignment for you
we have identified here a book and we
have seen that it is available
i wanted to give you the opportunity to
write an expectation on your own
and i want you to expect that this book
is from the type non-fiction even if we
have used this parameter here and we
specify that is non-fiction
just wanted to test it again and also
try to make it fail
i'll give you a few seconds to pause the
video and to do the assignment on your
own
and after that i will show you how i
would solve it
all right this is pretty easy i'm going
to simply duplicate the last expectation
that we have here because from the
structure is already the way it should
be
and i'm going to
change here property from available to
type
and the type that we're interested in is
non-fiction
so let's fix this error here from above
in true
and we have tests that are passing
let's disable the type
and maybe we can even
change it to fiction but essentially the
first available book that we found was a
fiction book so for that reason the test
is failing
so now we have ensured that whatever
we're getting back
is indeed a non-fiction book because
this was the original requirement
and after one assignment
what is better than doing another
assignment because practice really
matters
now
this assignment will have two points the
first of it
is i want you to use this variable book
id that we have saved here
and you've seen that it has been
properly saved as a global variable i
wanted to use it
in a get single book and also in order
book this is in the request body
and this is here as a parameter
since you're already looking at a get
single book request
how about checking again
if inside here so let's write for
example five
i'd like to check that the current stock
is actually greater than zero
and i'm going to give you
a small hint on how to do this
so i'm going to go ahead here just
simply copy the structure
of the test here
let's say
we're going to write is in stock so this
would be the name of the test
and the expectation would be pm.expect
one
two be above
two
a very simple expectation here that will
help you out
when asserting that the current stock
is greater than zero
and you will see here that one is not
above two so it's not
working i'll give you a few seconds to
pause this
and after that i will continue solving
the assignment
all right
so the first part of the assignment is
super super easy
we only have to replace here any
hard-coded values with what we have here
book id
as a global variable and you can see
it's being rendered
and we also have this order book and
inside here is again super simple
you only have to get that right
and we can test if it's working properly
we're getting no errors so all good
there
going back to the test that we wanted to
check here
the property that we want to use is this
current stock
so as you recall
first of all we have to parse the
response so we define a variable called
response and we're using
pm.response.json
we're parsing that
and
what we can do here is to expect that
response
that current stock
to be above zero
super simple
the problem that you're getting here
is
you're gonna get this weird error it
says stock is not defined
and you'll probably not understand what
is this referring to
the problem is this dot syntax this dot
notation
when getting properties from an object
works with this kind of like simple
properties that are one word
when you have this
dash here this hyphen here
this would kind of like break the syntax
and you have to fall back to the other
syntax with square brackets so we adding
here this square bracket we are putting
it
the name of the property as a string
here can be single quotes or double
quotes
use as you wish
and
that will get us the right property and
we'll see here now it is in stock
we're trying to get something that's not
in stock for example book id
2 i think it was not in stock
we'll have here failing test
expected 0 to be above 0 so that's not
working
but with our book id here
it's working properly
all right so this was the assignment
now it seems that we have all elements
that can help us do proper test
automation
we have written api tests that ensure
the api response as we expect the api to
respond and generally how we expect the
api to work
and we also have added all these
variables
and essentially we don't have to copy
paste anything anymore from one request
to the next one
the next step is to move into the
direction of automation
we want to take this request and instead
of going request by request from one
request to the other and running this
manually
we will use a built-in tool from postman
this is the collection runner and the
collection runner allows us to execute
the entire collection with just one
click
so let's see how this works
first of all i have too many requests
here open again
so i'm gonna simply go ahead and close
all of them i don't need them everything
is saved
and here in the lower part of the screen
it's a bit hidden you'll find this
button runner so i'm going to click on
it
in earlier postman versions you could
start the runner directly from the
context menu of the collection itself
not sure if this will be added back but
just in case if you're watching this a
bit later on maybe this has come back
here in the collection just saying
all right
so this is essentially the runner and in
order to run this collection we're gonna
essentially drag and drop it here
and here is the run order the run order
is in which order will this request be
executed now for example here
the way we have organized the requests
here in the collection this is how they
will be executed for example here
the way we did it is
before actually ordering a book we first
registered our api client so it may make
sense to do this somewhere before that
of course this is not impacted
so if we don't want this anymore we can
simply close this all together
open the collection runner again
drag it here you will see the new order
you also have the possibility of
reordering requests or disabling some
requests that you don't need
okay so this is in terms of in which
order will this request be executed
there are some other things that we
want to do
one very important one is to save the
responses and just in case something
goes wrong
by saving the responses we'll be able to
take a look at what has happened
okay
so let's click on this button and let
the runner do his job
now as you can notice some of the
requests have been successful in terms
of testing
and some of them have failed
for example here register api client
this has failed and we already knew that
sending the same data will cause this to
fail so no big surprise there
there are also some other ones who have
failed here
for example get an order has failed
now if you want to better understand
what has happened
we can take a look here
and if we're looking here at the request
we'll see that we have this
order
and
let's try to understand like what has
happened here
you'll notice here that we have this
order id
but this is the order id that we have
manually hard coded here we are not
updating this with every execution
and
yeah this is your next assignment
do you have any idea how we can fix this
i will give you a few seconds to pause
this video
and to try to do this assignment on your
own
all right
obviously manually hard coding this it's
not the best approach and as you can see
we totally forgot that this thing was
manually added
so what we have to do here is to fix
this order so where is this coming from
it's coming from
this post request order book
and we have added a test but we're not
doing anything else
so let's submit it again this is the
property that we're interested in
if we want to be very sure that this is
working properly we can use again
console.log but just gonna
speed it up a bit so again
we're parsing the response we have to do
this all the time
and it's not
pm.request.json it's pm.
i have to be careful what i'm writing
and we're going to set the global
variable
and we're going to be careful to name it
order id
so this is the key this is how the name
of the variable will be
and we're going to get it from response
dot
order id
you see i'm always copy pasting this
because i don't want to make any
mistakes in terms of how i name this
let's run it again
we inspect it
and what do we see here
it is absolutely the same
order id as we have in the response so
it means this has been updated
and let's go back to our execution and
see if this helps us
get rid of the error i'm gonna click
here on run again
and now
you can see that apart from the register
api client which has failed
the rest of them
are working properly and we have at
least a status code test that is
ensuring that everything is working
properly
so good job
there is still something very annoying
about this register api client request
on one hand
we don't want to get rid of it because
we may need it later on but the same
time when we're automating now the
execution it's kind of annoying to have
it in there
and luckily there is a way how we can
influence the order in which the
requests are executed
and let me give you an example
i'm gonna go here to this api status
request i'm gonna go to the tests
and what postman allows us to do is to
specify here in the code
where
postman should go with the next request
and currently this is done by writing
postman
this is instead of pm which is let's say
the newer way how we're interacting with
postman
this postman
entirely is a bit older and may get
replaced later on maybe at the time
you're watching this
currently in the version that i'm using
is still working just saying
but it allows us to specify where the
next request should go
and this goes by saying set next request
you'll see here the autocomplete
and here we will not specify an url
but it will specify the name of the
request so for example here how about
skipping this
so the normal execution goes from here
to here to here to here
how about if we tell postman hey after
you've checked the api status
go to the list of books
so we have to get here the name of this
request
exactly as it is i'm going to simply
copy the name
and put it here as a string
so going back to the collection runner
i'm going to hit here
this one
and if you look here you will see
we had api status
we have you know registered
the api client no it's no longer there
we have jumped directly to the list of
books
and you know the flow continued we
didn't want to skip any other requests
and you can see here that the register
api client is not present
an alternative to doing this
is to move this
right here at the end
and for example you can go to this
delete order request
and specify postman
set next request
and this time
we don't want to go anywhere else
we just want to say stop
so in order to say stop we simply say
specify null null means
don't go anywhere else
don't go here
for example
gonna run it again
this one with the api status has
absolutely no effect it will go to the
list of books just as instructor but
this is also the normal behavior
what has changed here is that the delete
order request
will be essentially the last request
because it will instruct postman hey
stop the loop
now the thing with these loops is
well
it can get crazy so you have to be very
careful when you're using these
conditions and especially when you want
to stop something if you just want to
skip something that's totally fine
but
just going to demonstrate
what's happening if i'm going to set it
to list of books
so it's running
and running
so it will essentially run forever
because we don't have any condition
that's telling it to stop it will
continue running endlessly so i'm going
to manually stop it here
but especially if you want to do
automation
it's probably not a good idea to have a
job running all the time
so just be very careful the conditions
that you're writing
and use the collection runner to test it
out before you do anything else
so we have managed to automate this with
a collection runner we still need to do
this manual click there and
how about a way to run this collection
all the time
but not to worry about doing that click
and there is a functionality that is
built in imposement
and that is the monitors you can notice
here from collections a bit
further down you have monitors
but also from the context menu of the
collection
you can select here monitor collection
so monitor collection or clicking here
on monitors
and
clicking on create a monitor
will take you to this page so let's see
here the monitor name will be check
books api
say for example we want to make sure
that this books api is working
all the time without us having postman
open or without starting the collection
runner
and
we can define a frequency so for example
we can decide run it every day
run it every weekday and so on so there
are a lot of configurations that we can
select here
and i will not get into all of them
of course what's important here if you
go this way you have also to select the
collection kind of important
so we're using the simple book api the
only collection available in this
workspace
i'm going to go ahead here click on
create
and once this monitor has been created
you don't need to do anything else it
will start on its own
and you will get a notification by email
something went bad
of course just for testing purposes i
will run it manually once but if you
don't write menu it will start on its
own according to the schedule
this execution will happen
on the postman infrastructure and is
totally decoupled from your browser your
computer or anything else
it is a relatively easy way to
check if something is working
in this case you will see here that
it says unhealthy something went bad
so we can scroll a bit down here
and we'll see this report and it will
show us what has happened
and you will see here that the test that
we had here
the first request that we have they are
working
but as soon as we do something with
orders it will not work anymore the test
will fail and would say here 401
unauthorized
so what's going on
there are not so many
information in regards to this
and you'll kind of have to guess like
what has happened
as you remember
at one point we have created inside our
collection
this
token
which we have manually generated
and we haven't specified it in the
initial value
now
when we have created this monitor
essentially we have shared this
collection with postman
and because we haven't provided the
access token they don't know what they
should do
so this is why this will fail
so if we go ahead and add the current
value to the initial value
save it
go back to the monitor
and run it again
you will see now that
it has worked perfectly
unfortunately when something doesn't
work well here
it's a bit harder to debug because you
don't have access to all the information
that you would normally have inside
postman
but especially when everything works
properly still a pretty powerful tool
now typically when anything fails around
automation or with a collection runner
or here with a postman monitor it is
typically regarding
missing
postman variables or something that
hasn't been properly set
so it's always a good idea to check that
first
the most important tool
when trying to automate a collection run
is newman and newman is a cli tool that
can take a postman collection run all
the tests and at the end also generate a
report
if you know how to use newman
you can run a postman collection with
api tests on any professional server
that deals with building and testing
software like for example jenkins
gitlabci teamcity or anything else that
you use
we're not going to look into specific
integrations but i wanted to show you
how we can properly use newman
in order to use newman locally on your
computer you need to have nodejs
installed
and i've added some details on how to do
that inside the course nodes
i've opened here terminal and i already
have new one installed so i'm gonna
write here newman
dash dash version
and this will indicate that newman has
been properly installed on my computer
now you're probably wondering
how can we get access to the postman
collection that we have
and run it with newman
and that is definitely a very good
question
first of all you can go to your
collection
click on this three dots
and export this collection as a json
file
i have created a new folder to hold this
collection and i'm going to simplify a
bit the name
so it's going to be postman underscore
collection.json let me go ahead and save
it
an alternative way to doing this is
simply clicking here
on the context menu of the collection
clicking on share collection
getting a public link
and this public link will be generated
you need to pay attention that this link
does not automatically get updated
when you update something inside your
collection and every time you make a
change and use this public link you have
to come back here and click on update
link to make those changes visible
there's also a third way which i'm not
gonna show
by using a postman api postman also has
an api that allows you to get to these
collections by using an api key that
will add in the course notes some
details about it so there are three ways
on how we can do it and i'll be
demonstrating two of those
so from the terminal window that i have
i'm gonna go inside the folder where i
have saved this collection
this is a simple book api
and you will see that the postman
collection is here so i can simply use
newman
run
and then i'm going to specify the path
to the collection
now you can notice that the entire
execution has been successful
all the tests have been generated
properly
everything seems to be working fine
the alternative to
using it as a file is something like
newman run specifying here the link
where the collection is
this can be essentially anywhere where
it's reachable over http i'm going to
simply copy the link that we have here
as a public link
and absolutely the same thing will
happen
the reason why this may fail is again
due to
variables or missing tokens that you may
have in your collection which either are
not set as the initial value
or are only
available as a global variable or
something that hasn't been
exported if you're using for example
environment you need to export those
environments as well and also specify
them here
probably one of the most important
things
when working with newman is the
possibility of generating reports and
one of the reports everyone in the
postman community absolutely loves is
the html extra report which will
generate an html report now it is not
only nice to have a
good looking report but it's also super
helpful when you're trying to debug
something that went wrong
this report will contain anything that
you log it will contain the full request
and the full response to really really a
lot of data
i'm going to link you in the course
notes also this reporter and how you can
install it
and i'll also go through the
installation steps and how to configure
it in a bit
so this is the command that you need to
run in order to install this reporter i
already have it here
and in terms of the usage you can notice
here that we have here newman run and
it's the collection and all we have to
do is specify the reporter we can use
dash dash reporters which is my
preferred way of specifying
any flags or any additional information
to a command because it's just much
easier to read
so this is the newman run command
i'm going to write here reporters
we're going to still keep the cli
reporter this is the cd reporter what
you're seeing here
and without any spaces comma and write
html reporter
and you're writing these commands
it has to be
exactly as it is
so it's not html report it's html extra
sorry
but
you have to write reporters space and
then specify the reporters it's not
reporters equals or anything like this
so be very careful what you're writing
and also as you've seen
i've written the wrong reporter name
so this has been executed and i will
look inside the folder to see how this
report looks like
so inside that folder you'll notice that
an additional folder has been created
it's called newman
and it contains here an html report that
you can open by double clicking on it
what you'll see here is absolutely like
an overview of what has happened in
terms of requests and responses with how
many requests have been sent
you can go to the requests you can
investigate what happened with each
request for example order book you can
open it up
you can see that has been a post request
you can see the address
you can see which request headers have
been sent so for example if you're
having like any problems with
authorization you'll see here if the
proper
token was sent if you see here for
example a postman variable that hasn't
been resolved
it's probably one reason why something
failed
so it really gives you a lot of
information in a very
nice and easy to read format
both for newman and for the html
reporter
there are tons of configurations that
you should know or especially if you
want to get started with this you really
have to get very familiar with the
documentation try to understand which
flags are available what you can
configure
you can specify the names of the reports
and many other things
we are coming towards the end of the
course and i wanted to give you the big
picture in terms of automation
and why newman is so important and where
does everything that you have learned
fit
here's a pretty realistic project that i
have this is an api
and essentially this api has a built
pipeline this is a piece of software
that goes through a build process so
this is where the code is being compiled
it has some internal tests that are
being executed unit tests and also some
code quality
then this api is being deployed to a
server
and then i have here a stage of doing
api testing so once i have deployed this
api somewhere
i'm using a postman collection in human
to run some tests
and to ensure that the api is working
properly
and just in case something is not
working properly i rely on the postman
test and on human to notify me and tell
me inside this pipeline hey the last
change that you have done
caused some issues there were some tests
that failed
and this is where everything fits in
together so for example if i go to this
api testing stage here
and i'm looking inside the job well what
i will see here is the newman execution
i have here newman run
i'm running a collection
i'm also specifying some environments so
one environment here that i'm using i'm
also specifying reporters like cli
reporter html extra junit
and specifying where i should save a
specific reporter and so on
in addition to this in addition to
getting all this information here you
can go here to browse
and i will see here inside the newman
folder i'll have the html reporter
and here i'll be able to debug if
something went wrong way to understand
what has happened and so on
so this is essentially
how everything comes in place
we have an api that we want to use and
test and ensure that it's working
properly
we have gone through the manual process
of testing it but once we are happy that
the api works and we have understood how
it works we have documented that
functionality by writing api tests and
we have taken this execution of the test
through different stages first of all
within postman just to make sure that
everything worked properly
but then we have used that collection
and using newman we could
essentially automate this execution run
and integrate this postman collections
with many other tools we're showing here
the example we get labci you can do the
same with jenkins with teamcity
circleci or any other continuous
integration continuous deployment server
that you may be using
we have accomplished so many things in a
very short amount of time
i know this was a lot to take in but i
hope it was useful and that this has
opened your appetite for learning more
if the scripting part was difficult and
you are still confused about javascript
variables objects arrays you can benefit
from taking a basic javascript
programming course
suppose you want to learn more about api
testing and postman
in that case you can explore topics
around data-driven tests where you use
an external csv or json file to fit
different data sets in your request
or schema validation where you
essentially test the structure of the
response in one go instead of going
property by property
or you can go deeper into authentication
and learn about oauth2
you will find links to more advanced
tutorials that show different things you
can do with postman in the course notes
hope you have enjoyed this course and
i'll be very happy to see you again
bye now